# audio-frequency-spectrum-analyser (audioobject.py)
Read audio from file or sound card input and display waveform and FFT

Based on a tutorial by Youtube user Mark Jay. Credit goes to him for the original code.

I made some modifications, bundled it up into a class and added the ability to take in any audio file that your operating system is capable of playing. I stuck with using matplotlib instead of PyQTGraph just to keeps things a little simpler and so that everything needed is installable with pip.

## requirements
All code is written for Python >= 3.5
modules not in the python standard library are: pyaudio, matplotlib, numpy, scipy and audioread

`pip install pyaudio` (for getting audio data from sound card)

if you are on linux you will also need to install the portaudiov19-dev package with your package manager

I have heard that on windows you also need to pip install pywin, however this is untested

`pip install matplotlib`

`pip install numpy`

`pip install scipy`

`pip install audioread`

if running this module as the main file in your project there is some example code at the bottom to help get you started.

## optional arguements
'filename=file.wav' specify a file to read from. Currently it reads this file as fast as it can.

'create_plot=False' stop automatic plot generation, in case you will use the audio data elsewhere

'chunk=4096' or any multiple of 1024. amount of audio data to read at a time.

'rate=48000' or any sample rate your sound card is capable of. 

'audio_format=' data type to use with pyaudio. i wouldnt change this if i were you

'channels=' number of recording channels. I wouldnt change this either. It defaults to 1

# visualizer.py
This class can take data generated by the AudioObject class above to create a visualization. Just like above, you can run this as your main project file as their is some example code at the bottom. I plan on adding different styles of visualization at a later point. There are currently 2 styles implemented

## requirements
This script has two additional requirements: pillow and opencv

`pip install pillow`

`pip install opencv-python`

## optional arguements
'style=2' currently only values of 1 or 2 are accepted. Throws a generic ValueError otherwise

'audio_object=' only an instance of the AudioObject class. Omit or set to None if you will be supplying your own audio data
